.\" bitlbee is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
.\" the Free Software Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH bitlbee 8 "July 10, 2002"
.SH NAME
bitlbee \- irc gateway to im chat networks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bitlbee
.RI
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbitlbee\fP is an irc daemon that can talk to instant messaging 
networks and acts as a gateway. Users can connect to the server
with any normal irc client and see their 'buddy list' in
#bitlbee. Bitlbee's protocol support is based on the gaim 
protocol plugins. Bitlbee currently supports oscar (aim and icq), 
MSN and ICQ.

Bitlbee should be called by inetd.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
\fBbitlbee\fP doesn't currently accept any command-line options.
.SH COMMANDS
BitlBee can be configured by giving one or more of these commands in 
#bitlbee:
.TP
.B help
Show list of commands and supported protocols
.TP
.B login <protocol> <username> <password> [<server>]
Connect using the specified protocol, username and password. If no 
server is specified, the default server is used.
.TP
.B logout <connection>
Disconnect the given (numbered) connection.
.TP
.B slist
List all current connections with connection numbers.
.TP
.B add <connection> <handle>
Add new buddy with given handle on protocol with given number to buddy list.
.TP
.B remove <nick>
Remove specified nick from buddy list
.TP
.B block [<nick>|<connection> <handle>]
Ignore specified nick or combination of connection number and handle.
.TP
.B allow [<nick>|<connection> <handle>]
Unignore specified nick or combination of connection number and handle.
.TP
.B set [<variable>] [<value>]
Set configuration setting to given value
.TP
.B save
Saves current configuration, buddy list and login details to disk.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ircd (8), 
.BR inetd (8), 
.BR inetd.conf (5), 
.BR gaim (1).
.BR http://www.lintux.cx/bitlbee.html
.SH BUGS
Probably many, but none are known at the moment.
.SH LICENSE
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
\fBWITHOUT ANY WARRANTY\fR; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU 
General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License 
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple PLace, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
 Wilmer van der Gaast <lintux@lintux.cx>
.BR
 Sjoerd Hemminga <sjoerd@hemminga-online.nl>
.BR
 Jelmer Vernooij <jelmer@nl.linux.org>
